Cursor is not laying down. Cursor is
going to show up and they're going to
fight back.
>> Probably nobody else wants this, right?
This is sort of this is this works
really well for me. Okay. And drive an
automatic. I'd like an automatic in my
coding editor. The timeline is a year is
too long now. So, we are going to do our
January 2026 prediction. Do you see what
I'm saying? Like we're going to do
monthly predictions. What I was getting
out of it felt fantastic
>> and I didn't want to stop,
>> right? I didn't want to stop. I wanted
to have agents going. I I don't know how
to do the 7-hour business.
>> The answer is you write continue enter
continue enter continue enter because it
will always you always send one message
and it's like
>> that is the best pro tip hack I have
ever heard which is you want agents to
keep working just queue up a bunch of
enter commands and then and then go to
bed.
>> I learned it from the best.
>> Hello. Welcome back to the show that
doesn't have a name with Ben Vinegar and
me Armen. and we're going to talk about
aic coding again or just AI stuff.
>> First off, hey everybody, how was your
holidays though, Armen? Did you have a
good holidays?
>> Actually, part of the reason why I had a
lot of time coding was because I caught
Norovirus,
I think, or a version of that which was
not enjoyable.
So,
>> this this took a turn. I was not
prepared.
I was not prepared. Okay. Well, look,
you were sick, but everybody was
definitely very busy to the degree and
and it almost felt like everybody had
their holiday stuff that they had to get
done. And then maybe almost for like,
you know, leading up to New Year's now,
I felt like everybody had collectively
decided to try Claude Code. That was
like a big thing for me to the point
where I thought I was like either the I
thought that like the the X algorithm
had changed or that this was like a mass
hallucination. Well, I have some
independent data points, right? It's not
just the algorithm.
I think it was real. What was really
interesting is uh for instance, one of
Centry's former uh sorry, Centry is
still engineer manager, but like I I I
used to work with the guy. He was like
all of a sudden tweeting about claw and
I know that he was looking at this
before, but then I was like, "Hey, like
did you also like catch the bug now?"
like yeah I know I had time to to dive
in and but there's a difference between
knowing it and sort of catching the the
addiction in a way and and for that you
need time right
>> you know I was using open code
exclusively actually over over the
holidays I was trying to go deeper with
open code and randomly I fired up claude
maybe a few days later and I noticed it
was like hey you got a bunch of guest
passes do you want to hand out these
guest passes and that's when it finally
clicked for me that this could have been
a guest passfueled
media
>> well And there was higher limits. Don't
forget that
>> one thing about that like one takeaway
if that's true like I don't know but I
suspect it played us a significant part.
You know for example my reaction was I I
shared my guest passes with some friends
you know like hey you should try this.
One takeaway is if we've been doing this
for a while like we think nothing of
whatever spending 2030
I'm on a $200 a month plan you're on
something similar. the value is so
obvious that
you know I'll try these tools it's no
problem but for a lot of people for
actually getting access in a really like
easy cheap way and to get started is
like a real invitation and I'd kind of
forgotten about that if that makes
sense.
>> Yeah,
>> this was a theme I think of our last
talk too, right? I got the impression
that a lot of users who are trying
Claude for the first time were cursor
users. Does that track?
>> I believe so. And I I did a tweet maybe
like a month ago where I was asking like
why people use cursor.
Um actually sorry I didn't ask what why
people use cursor. I asked like what are
you using other than clot and sort of I
I I basically asked a bunch of cursor
users like why are they using cursor and
the big reason why they're using cursor
is because their employer pays for it.
particularly if you're bound to like a
hardware device that has actually cursor
on it but you can't actually use it at
home because of like SSO whatever
Chrises might actually also be a reason
for you to like look at other things if
you don't want to pay for it and you get
it through your work you use whatever
the work pays for right
>> yeah a lot of people don't want to spend
their own money that's totally valid so
this is I think just feeds the like the
lock in is real it could be like an
employer lockin you know you're provided
this tool for your work it's the thing
you get comfortable with and it takes
like a mass guest pass event to get you
to try other things. So it's not just
that people were trying Claude,
you felt that people were also trying
other tools. I look I I was using open
code a lot. I guess that's one example.
Certainly open code seemed to get a lot
of activity over the holidays and that's
like another terminal based 2e agentic
coding platform like cloud code. Uh this
is where you can tell jump in and tell
me about like I saw codeex a few times
like
>> so I saw I saw a lot of stuff pop over
Christmas that that that got more
traction than I think before open code
was an obvious one. I think open code
has a lot of traction right now and
obviously also in part because it's
compatible with your subscription. So if
you if you if you have a claw
subscription you can actually use it
with open code then like if you're
already hooked on this idea like open
code has a bunch of really useful
features that sort of make it feel like
more powerful than like if you just use
cloud code as a harness. The one thing
that sort of really popped up over
Christmas was um like Joffrey did this
project like already like months ago I
think like in in May like the the the
Ralph Wigam thing but um Boris from from
Antropic finally trying Twitter. He was
tweeting somewhere on one of his first
tweets that he's using Ralph and then
people went to Claude Code to get the
Ralph plugin from the marketplace.
>> Um so like all of this sort of
>> a lot of stuff happened but let's let's
slow down. There was a lot of words
there that you were dropping. Who is
Boris?
>> And let's
>> Boris Journey is the person that is
widely credited as having
created/invented clot code. He is also
somewhat famous for having gone to
cursor for two weeks and then come back
to entropic or at least that was the
reporting. I don't know if it was ever
confirmed. And he has only interacted
with people on threats until early
Christmas. I think he joined
X in mid December or something.
>> So on top of this, on top of guest
passes, and if this was all planned,
this is very clever by anthropic. You
have the creator of Claude showing up
and being like, "Hey, here's how I use
Claude. You might find it interesting.
Here's a bunch. Here's all the ways in
which I use it. Take these tips for
yourself." I saw this thread and there
it was very useful. I don't think I
clued into the fact that he had not been
writing before. I just thought it was
like, "Oh, this is a great thread. Very
interesting." Okay, so recommend you
find this thread, man. Just a lot going
on over the holidays. So, look, we heard
from open code. We heard a lot of people
trying Open Code. We heard a lot of
people trying Claude.
Where's Cursor? Where's Cursor in this?
So, I think part of the reason why we
hear so much about Open Code, I think
part of the reason why we hear so much
about Claude Code and also Codeex is
because all of those things work with
the best models at good prices. I I know
$200 is expensive. Don't get me wrong. I
pay a lot of for tokens, but it's it is
like if you if you're deep in on it,
it's really good. And cursor sort of has
a pricing problem in that sense. It's
more expensive comparatively. Like if
you're really going into a decoding sort
of it's like the value proposition is
not quite there. And what has definitely
happened is that more and more people
started like really giving up on the IDE
and just going to the agent. There's
there's more and more people that sort
of play especially for Christmas they
played with like hands off a vibing and
so the value proposition shifting I
think.
>> Can you take a moment to explain that
pricing difference because I think that
we take it for granted but look we just
saw like a lot of people activate on
these products and you mentioned earlier
that they offered 2x usage over the
holidays and that had a meaningful
impact probably. What do you mean when
you say that cursor is more expensive?
Can you just kind of like go a little
more deeper into that? So specifically
right now the for a lot of people the
$100 subscription on cloud code or the
$200 subscription on cloud code and
codeex is more than they need but it is
cheaper than if they were to pay API
prices and also you couldn't pay
individually for API prices like this
like you would actually have to go
through open code at the moment to get
the rate limits that you need for Asians
but but like there are people like
friend of mine Peter if you were to
tally up his token usage that he did
from I think September or something to
December. The total was something like
350 billion tokens. If you were to put
that in monetary terms, it would be like
$70,000. He only paid 2 and a half
thousand or something like this. I
forgot exactly what he paid because the
subscription is so discounted.
>> So basically like if you're using Claude
and is there anybody are there any other
providers that give a plan with similar
similar usage? So, Codex has a $200
plan. Claude has a $200 plan. Open Code
launched secretly launched a black plan
which was only there for like 15 minutes
or whatever. Well done, Dex.
>> It's back. It's back. It's being dropped
out. Yeah,
>> I I don't know what the limits are going
to be to be clear, but there are some um
I also heard there are some people using
factory I think I think is a factory io.
I think they might also have like a $400
plan that's quite I don't know. I'm I'm
not paying that much.
>> So, but but there like the discounts are
real, I think, is
>> so if you're somebody spending, you
know, using just a ton of tokens, these
$200 plans, you're getting below the
market rate, especially if your usage is
high. Now, Curser,
I think, even has like a $200 plan, or
is that not true? Is it more like you're
paying more market rate with Cursor? Is
that the difference? So, I think part of
the problem here is like I don't want to
guess what their current offering is
because I I literally haven't used
cursor in months. But what I what I do
know is that the tokens what what you
get out of let this way secondhand
knowledge from people using cursor that
I know they don't get that much usage
out of it that's anywhere close if you
were to use the premium models which is
OPUS and Codex. You get a lot of the
usage out if you use a new model that
they have which is called something like
>> so there's an element of hearsay here
like we don't actually know
>> absolutely
>> right we don't know
>> I lawyers cursor lawyers
>> we don't know this is the you know we
are not professionals
>> the argument behind that is that you
know if you're buying from claude you're
you're mainlining from the LLM provider
itself from anthropic and they're in a
position like they are probably
subsidizing a lot of this and codeex
that's from open AI similar story but in
cursor's case with an asterisk they do
have their own model which is composer
you're often sort of like roundtpping to
anthropic or to other model providers
through cursor and that they're not in
the same position to you know offer you
this kind of like the same kind of
>> that's what it seems like right now but
I think that also like these things
change all the time and
it is very conceivable that a they can
come up with their own model but also
that they make really good pricing
arrangement like they they they have
money at this point. So I I I wouldn't
say like like just because like maybe
right now the value proposition doesn't
seem to be there
>> right
>> that it's like inherent to their
business. I I I don't want to make that
statement. It just seems like right now
they haven't focused on subsidizing it
as much I think as some other providers
have.
>> Okay. And this is our perception. our
perception, right, which is very
fallible and subjective. And that that's
like my perspective too, or at least my
experience using cursor was kind of
being like I still do I I think this
came up last time, but I I use cursor.
I'm a paid cur I have a paid plan for
cursor, which is like I don't know 20 or
$30 a month, and then I inject open code
or I inject Claude into into that IDE.
And I use both like an insane person.
And I still do use actually the cursor
agent sometimes if if only just to mess
around with different models and to sort
of like see how this works. And I find
that I do hit them I will hit the usage
limits quite quickly. Right? That's what
I've observed that this is not like a
maxed out $200 plan to be clear. So, you
know, but the perception that I have
gotten as a user is that I have to be
sort of like way more um
>> let's put this way tokens
>> if if the reality is different and right
now I would recommend them to do
something marketing wise because my my
perception just like getting the vibes
is like I right now it doesn't doesn't
seem like I'm particularly interested in
sort of like diving back in. But I will
say biggest reason actually is that I
gave up on the ID. Like I'm not using
ids right now. And I think like it's not
that has such a great terminal user
interface experience. That's not it. But
like my my the way I'm interacting with
the code now is no longer like I used
to. So this sort of tap complete thing
is like to me is completely I don't know
when I hit the tap key like last time. I
turned off auto tap complete stuff
everywhere now. That's that's where I
moved. I I I want to come back to this,
but I I'm not done quite yet because I
think there's one more thing I want to
talk about this sort of holiday mass
hallucination uptake of different AI
coding projects. And of course, like a
big factor is that people have free
time.
It's a huge one, probably the biggest
one at the end of the day. But I I have
like an observation. I want to know if
you think this is true or not. When we
did this last time, there was a couple
new model releases. Gemini had something
new. I don't know if this happened by
the time we recorded it, but chatbt
5.2 came out. Uh, these numbers are
starting to be irrelevant. Starting to
feel irrelevant, by the way. Like, I'm
just throwing numbers out there. But
when that happened, you know, you have
like the week of everybody kind of being
like, "Wow, this is the best model
ever."
Blew me away. And then you never hear
about it two weeks later. Two takeaways
from that. one new models dropping
didn't really drive a lot of people to
take up a coding tools. That wasn't
enough. Opus has been out since Opus 45
has been out since November.
>> And it took December for people to
realize that it's good.
>> Yes,
that's kind of what I wanted to touch
on. This was even what we talked about
last time, which was like, oh, these new
models dropped. What do you think about
that? Nah.
And I was I had been using it at the
time. I'd been using Opuset at the time
and I was still kind of developing an
opinion like it takes some time.
>> I agree. I like I did not realize how
much better it is until Christmas and I
was using it dayto-day, right? I don't
know what to think about it because like
on the one hand it's like you feel the
model and then you get sort of idea what
you can do with it and whatever. Like so
it's like it takes a while for you sort
of like acclimate in it. And I also
noticed like there's like there's a huge
rift right now between people that so
maybe so a small detour but there's a
huge difference between Opus and Codex
and not in terms of the quality but in
terms of how they work. Codex to me I
would describe as it's a lucky draw. It
it goes really deep. It thinks it does
something but you cannot interact with
it until it's done. Like if I say like
hey what if I do this? It's like we
could do this. Stop thinking. Stop doing
anything. Like you you you can prompt
it. You let it go, it will work for like
I had to I had codeex work an entire
night for a refactor. Seven and a half
hours. I saw it like I I took like
screenshots of way it it would seven and
a half hours through six compactions to
refactor my game from SDL2 to like soal.
It was impressive but I cannot on a
daily basis interact with it because
like I I want to like talk with it. I
want to do some stuff and and Opus does
this, right? Um, and so I noticed that
as these two sort of new releases like
Opus and Codex, as people got more
feeling of how to work with it, like two
camps emerged. The ones that really love
Codex and the ones that really loved
Opus. And even those models are like
months old at this point. Like it took
like a month or so for like everybody
sort of to get to pick their favorite
model and like really get to understand
how to make it work really well. I found
this interesting. I don't I didn't
notice that as much before. I think
>> I know for me I would say that I did
notice and you can even see this in my
ramped up usage.
I noticed that I was doing a lot more
things in parallel because I
increasingly got comfortable and I
started to see that the results were
pretty good and that I reached kind of
like a zen point where I could kind of
have three agents going at once for like
the right kind of task. You know,
eventually get a feel for this.
And if I went and looked at my sort of
like CC usage, which is a terminal
command that tells you a little bit
about how you're using Claude, I noticed
that it was getting a lot higher. And I
don't think that's because I don't think
it's because the tokens were more
expensive. I'd been using the previous
version of Opus as well. It was just
that the number of kind of concurrent
projects that I was doing got really
high. And I noticed that I was working
more. I was staying up late. And I was
working late in part because I was so
what I was getting out of it felt
fantastic
>> and I didn't want to stop,
>> right? I didn't want to stop.
>> I wanted to I wanted to have agents
going. I I don't know how to do this
seven hour business. You know, maybe the
best I can do is like, you know, press a
button uh before I go to bed and maybe
it goes for 30 minutes
>> and when I wake up
>> and like I learned this from Peter. The
answer is you write continue enter
continue enter continue enter because it
will always you always send one message
in. So it's like
>> when it's done, it just keeps doing.
>> That is the ultimate That is the best
protip hack I have ever heard, which is
like you want agents to keep working,
>> just queue up a bunch of enter commands
and then and then go to bed.
>> I learned it from the best.
>> There are people right now who are like
hardcore engineering these insane
harnesses to like get things to go, you
know, and they're just getting
completely outclassed by somebody who's
queued up 10 enter commands in a row. I
think that's [__] hilarious.
Well, I don't know if it was out fast. I
just uh I noticed that others are doing
that and I for a certain type of task it
works. And actually, I think that that
to me like I I still can't work with
Codex and I do pay for for GV Pro. So, I
have Codex and I use it extensively for
review. I am impressed how good it can
continue working post compaction because
OPOS cannot. Like when Opus compacts
it's trash, but when when Codex the the
commandant tool and the uh the the the
model when they compact they just they
keep remembering what they're doing.
It's like it's really well tuned for
that. Um so there's definitely some
differences here, but it's painful how
how this is vibes, right? Like it is
vibes because you know how do you
quantify this? I felt the compaction
with with Opus 45 is better. I felt that
it could go further than in the past.
This might be a good segue to talk about
AMP and this episode has taken a bit of
a turn because I think we got a little
bit more into the primitives of all of
this stuff last time and this has just
been more of a like boy it's been a hell
of a year, right? like that that uh
Tintin comic and you know Armen you're
like you're like then it's January 8th
you know like like a lot has happened
and it's hard to summarize it all
>> do you want to talk about AMP a little
bit
>> yeah look I think AMP had a little bit
sort of the same problem over Christmas
as cursor had which is like it's more
expensive right but
>> can we go back for a moment here with
AMP so look that was probably a third of
our episode last time maybe that's an
exact exaggeration maybe like 10 minutes
you were really enamored with AMP and
here we are it's like not even that you
know a month later didn't even come up
so what what what's going on with AMP I
used it and I have something to talk
about it but I wanted to like check in
with you so I I still use it I don't use
plot code anymore I use the subscription
I use it with pi this is coding a friend
of mine and this is like where a lot of
my usage now goes but then I also use
AMP still and the reason I use both pi
and amp is because they do something
very similar which is I feel like it's
built by people that are using it and
they're they're kind of trying to see
like how far can you go with the harness
and for me who was also working on a
it's just really really really
interesting to kind of see this kind of
exploration right so AMP tried a whole
bunch of really interesting novel things
like handoff as an example stuff like
this and that that really got me excited
and I the way I described is like AMP is
sort of like the the apple or the
Porsche of like a coding agent which is
like if you just want a really code
coding agent. It's it's like it's the
curated version of it with some really
cool ideas and it's kind of pushing a
little bit the boundaries of what it can
do in the harness. They can't really do
anything on the model side because they
don't build a model. That's why I still
use it, right? It's like this it's it's
very interesting to see what they can do
and the exploration of like what it can
do.
>> Okay. And when you're when you mean
harness, you're kind of talking like the
rapper, right? How what would you
describe as a as a harness? We've talked
about a bunch of them so far, right?
>> So, it's basically like the thing that
runs the loop and provides the tools and
the prompts and and like and and all of
that stuff.
>> And look, actually one thing that also
happened I think during the period
always like kills skills took off,
right? Like last time I think when we
talked skills were were not yet
>> were not yet like really widespread. But
that I think also happened over
Christmas like people realized like how
good skills are now. So like a also
supports them like I think open core at
this point does like a lot of these
agents too.
>> Skills move beyond just the anthropic
platform into other things and
this was also a theme from last time
which was like having what we called
like proprietary extensions
right that maybe aren't so proprietary
anymore which is interesting but let's
not sidetrack too much from AMP. So your
interest in AMP is you're like they're
really innovative on the harness level
is what you're saying, right? And you
talked about handoff there. So when we
when we talked about this, I had not
used AMP. And a couple things that we
could talk about are that I wanted to
report back. I wanted to report back
that I used it for about like a full day
of work. Okay, that's like all day.
That's all I used. The way I used it is
I went to the website and I installed it
and it was like installed it to VS
Codecursor. So that's how I did it. I
didn't actually know that you could use
it that way. I thought it was its own
editor and I had to commit to a whole
new editor thing. I don't know where I
got that idea, but I don't think I don't
think I'm completely confused because I
was sharing this uh with my co-orker
Justin today and he said I thought the
exact same thing. So somewhere we've
somewhere we've gotten that idea. Is
that one? Is that wrong? Yes. No. Do you
know what I'm talking about? So I don't
know the origin story but I remember
that the editor integration was much
more visible pitched on the website than
it is today and I've never used it. So
but I I I would not be surprised if that
actually came prior to the terminal user
interface.
>> So that's one. So I was like oh it's
easier to get going and I wouldn't say
that it was like the best
integration. It's not bad. I I actually
think you know how I'm using like
injecting cloud or open code. I think I
prefer that but you know you get
comfortable with these things. So, but
the I do understand the comment about
handoff. So, what I really liked about
AMP that I've not seen other coding
agents do to the same degree is that
when your context starts running out and
that was a a big topic last time, you're
managing all this, you know, how many
tokens you're using. It has a whole kind
of like interface and means of being
like instead of just starting a new
session and starting over or compacting
do you want to hand off and presenting
an interface of like here is what we are
going to present to the next kind of
session so you can start from here and I
thought that that was the the experience
was really good. It kind of shined a
light on how that even the handoff even
works versus you know with your if
you're with Claude and I think cursor
was the same way where you just kind of
get you know compacting right and you
don't really understand what's going on
and immediately when I saw what was in
there I started editing it and I liked
that experience I felt like oh I can
actually kind of keep this uh this
session going on way better because of
this kind of interface and it shows a
lot like there is like a lot of
innovation that can be done just on the
UI right
>> there's This is why I like why why I
like the people that are working on it
because it feels like oh they they're
using it and sort of they're they seem
to be using it similar to how I enjoy it
and then this handoff stuff as an
example was like yeah like I I like to
have restart all the time and like this
this makes compaction kind of work for
me and AMP has also this thing where
like if you have a fret so if you if you
do have this handoff right I don't know
if you used this recently but if you do
a handoff in in AMP like it it does the
thing and it has this like new fresh
context with like the old information
came from a handoff, but it also says,
"Hey, this is a continuation from Fred
blah blah blah. If you need to con
consult it, here's the Fred ID." And
then AMP knows how to read the old
threat, which I think is also like is
such a cool thing
>> that it can read its own history. I
wouldn't call it innovation necessarily,
but I think we're like collectively
learning a little bit more like what
cool patterns are, how these work, and
when it's in the harness, it it's like
it's easy to discover, I would say.
>> How about this? We are collectively
benefiting from having so many
organizations kind of companies whatever
open source projects trying a bunch of
different stuff out and the best of it
is probably what you know we're going to
hang on to. Is that fair?
>> Yeah.
>> Here's what I did not like about AMP.
So one one is the price. And I think
this goes back to the kind of cursor
conversation. I think they give you like
five bucks worth of tokens. Don't quote
me on the number but they give you like
a very small amount when you sign up. I
blew through that. I was committed to
like really trying it. I think in AMP's
case, you don't even pick a plan. You
just sort of
like a budget. You pay per token, right?
>> So, I threw 50 bucks on there. I don't
know if that's a casual amount of spend.
I like I don't know 50 bucks. Um, and
also trying to share how committed I was
to trying this. I thought like I blew
through quite a I I didn't spend all
that, but I probably spent $20, you
know, and I didn't I don't know that I
did a lot of work relative to that.
That's one. And I think this just goes
back to our earlier conversation of like
there's something really comforting
about knowing you're kind of protected
or you've got like this really, you
know, maxed out tier, right? You you
kind of work differently.
>> Yeah. Knowing the cost definitely
changes your behavior for sure.
>> Yeah. I I didn't give it long live
tasks. I think that's one. I felt that
my tasks started to look a little bit
more like maybe what they looked like
six months ago where, you know, I'm
editing and I'm kind of like prompting a
little bit to get me further and like
there, you know, it it I did a pretty
good job. That's one. The second thing
is one of the biggest benefits of AMP,
it's like a pro and a con. And you
touched on this last time, but I
understand it more now. They take away
your decision to choose a model and they
make that decision for you and it's like
look we are going to build we're going
to we're just going to have a great
experience for you and it is a good
product. However, I think for me
>> you want the choice.
>> I don't know. It's not that I want the
choice. Hold on. I I I would like it to
just work all the time. Don't get me
wrong. Like I I drive an automatic.
Okay. I drive an automatic, you know? I
I'd like an automatic in my coding
editor. But the reason why I drive an
automatic
is because whether you drive a manual or
an automatic, it doesn't matter. You're
going to get there. Your choice between
a manual or an automatic like model in
terms of your coding agent, you might
not get there.
Does that does that make sense?
>> I could see it because if if if AMP were
to pick codeex, I don't know if it could
work with it because the model is so
like I don't like it. what's happening
under the hood could take you to a
completely different place and that's
what I felt my first experience like I
put in a prompt and AMP was super fast
and I was like damn but then the other
part of me is like this should not be so
fast okay for what I am asking it to do
right like it it I'm giving it sort of
like a highle hey implement this highle
feature for me I'm not giving you like a
lot of guidance here and it just comes
back it's like yeah you want this here
you go boom boom boom boom them. I'm
like, I don't know. Did you even read
the code? It's like handing a junior pro
programmer like a really intense task
and then they come back like 20 minutes
later and you're like, you haven't done
the homework.
>> So, I use Pi obviously a lot recently
and so so Pi famously has four used
tools like it's the the lowest the
lowest tool use edit harness I know. It
has edit, bash, read, write, run, bash,
and then one other thing that I forgot.
It's like it's the lowest amount you can
do. And so specifically doesn't have a
plan mode, right? And I it turns out the
way I talk to the machine, I don't need
the plan mode because I like I and it
also doesn't have permissions. It's yolo
only. But it's like I talk to the
machine back and forth enough that the
context has all it all in it. But I
realized that that not everybody is like
this and a lot of people need plan mode
because unless the model is specifically
instructed to like go on a vision quest,
it will not do so. And so like this
modality really matters I think for a
lot of people and I think um AMP I I'm
pretty sure doesn't have a plan mode at
the moment. And so like when I prompt it
doesn't matter because like the way I
talk to it like like if it has a plan
mode I wouldn't know but I never use a
plan mode. So like the way I talk to AMP
is the same way as I talk to like pi and
like for me it doesn't do this sort of
like do a whole bunch of stuff because
my prompting style is just like verbose
as hell. I think this we talked about
this last time which is you just get
really comfortable working with a model
and or or a harness and you you start to
develop a set of expectations for what
you're going to get back and how it's
going to work and boy I got put in like
a different harness and a different
model and I became my trust level was on
the floor right
um validly or invalidly and I still got
a bunch of work done, but it wasn't, you
know, I can't say that that's the
model's fault or anything. Um, it could
just be it could be supposedly they use
Gemini or no, they don't. I I don't know
anymore. Like this is like part of
>> they use I think they use Opus like
unless you picked the one week where it
had like Gemini.
>> It could not have been based on how
quickly it returned. You know, this
would be a fun exercise which is like a
game show where you just like have um
>> what's the model? Yeah. What is the
model? And it just streams out some text
and you know, boom. Yeah.
>> Well, I know how to spot codeex. It
randomly speaks Chinese and Russian. I
have no idea what's going on, but like
the amount of like random Chinese and
Russian I'm getting in CEX is just
bizarre. And not even real words, just
like made up words.
>> Oh, fascinating. I think at Modem we
once we did have a moment we were like,
where did this Chinese string come from?
you know, like how did this wind up in
the codebase? Um, and it was only one
and it's only ever happened once. So,
uh, I learned that that is a thing that
can happen. Codex is great at
accidentally throwing like foreign
character sets into it.
>> I don't I don't have anything more to
say about AMP. I thought it was a good
product, you know. Moving on.
>> One of the reasons why I'm using Pi so
much at the moment, which is built from
a friend of mine, is not because
actually particularly good coding agent.
like this like it's it it the website's
literally shitty coding agent.ai but it
has one feature that I keep going back
to which is branching. So basically what
you do is you you you keep going and
then you hit this point where you notice
like the agent sucks like it's it's
going in circles. It's not making any
progress. And what he can do at that
point is he can branch to an earlier
message. And then you say like, "Hey,
like we're going back to where you
didn't waste the last 25,000 tokens and
I'm going to tell you now how how you
[__] up and we're going to continue
from there." And I used this like for
inance I used this to refine tickets
over Christmas. I I paid like um project
manager and I I went to like hey here's
how we're going to like work on this and
I had this massive milestone ticket. I
used 50,000 tokens of my context just to
like talk through the milestone and then
I branched off there for every single
sub ticket to refine it on GitHub. Like
I was I was talking through the agent to
refine the tickets and I always branched
back to the point where I already had
the context primed and I enjoyed that
experience so much. Like it was just so
so refreshing this idea of like going
back up. I'm pretty sure like most of
these things do it but like in PI was so
obvious that he can do that. I was just
like really really enjoyable. the advice
lately has been look if you get to this
point just throw away the entire session
and start over from scratch frankly
right and you're proposing you know like
you don't have to do that um that would
save me a lot of time like I could think
I could think even today even today I
had a session that kind of went off the
rails halfway and I'm like gh what is
the best way for me to get to what I
want and I blew the whole session away
and I restarted so branching is cool
>> so pi is Mario Techna's um minimal
originally formally minimal coding agent
which very few tools tiny system prompt
like the system prompt is I would say
about 900 tokens compare it to claude
which has four and a half thousand or
something so it's like it starts out
empty and then you load in whatever you
want
>> by the way can you take a moment here
like there's a lot of things called pi
can you
>> how do I find this on the internet is
this open source like
>> so the website is shittycodai
>> okay
>> and it's in actually called Mario
intentionally, this is sort of like I'm
kind of breaking his like original
intention here, but he intentionally
named it Pi so that nobody can find it.
>> Okay,
>> this is like in in the announcement blog
post. He was like this is my coding
agent like I don't want to support an
open source project.
>> I did not know this. I I was not trying
to deliberately uh mess with this but I
could not find it. So yeah, this checks
out. So it's this thing and because it
is so empty and is like a canvas I have
started doing what I call meta aentic
programming with it where I literally go
to pi and say like pi build an extension
to yourself.
>> Okay. But when you say like it has such
a blank canvas like what am I seeing? Is
this a 2y? Is this a is this a terminal
experience?
>> It looks pretty much like it's less
flickery version of clot code. There's a
text box on the bottom but it does some
things really well. So one thing it does
really well is it can render images.
That to me is actually like a bit my
project over Christmas was a computer
game. Turns out if you build a computer
game, it's very important for the agent
to see pictures which every agent can
do. But I love also seeing the picture
that the agent sees because if the agent
takes his own picture, I want to see the
same picture, right? So seeing it like
scroll by which picture, which
screenshot it took and which it read is
really good. I love that aspect of it.
But then because it is like such a blank
canvas which has just a bunch of tools,
you have a lot of freedom to put your
own [__] into it. If you have used cloud
code for instance, it has this thing
where it sometimes asks you questions.
So it's like the prompt comes up and
sort of says like here are like here's a
UI, pick a bunch of choices or add your
own. Right? I I'm pretty sure I've seen
this at one point. I like the idea of
the agent asking me something, but I
don't like it bringing up this UI
because if it brings up questions
naturally, sort of it's hidden somewhere
in the text. So you have like here like
a bunch of options and here's my my pros
that goes with it. So I like reading
that but answering is really annoying
because now you have to like oh yeah on
question one blah blah blah on question
two blah blah blah. So I built this this
this plugin where you press like command
dot
>> and it then refinds with another model
all the questions in a text and then
presents a UI so that I can quickly tap
through the answers if that makes sense
for me works really well probably nobody
else wants this right this is sort of
this is this works really well for me so
I'm like yeah this is how I want it so
it does it or I had another thing where
like I I was debugging something where I
just felt like now is now is the time
for it to have this auto tool that I
think could be quite interesting where I
let it basically draw me mermaid
diagrams into the UI like the AMP does
this too like I think MM can can draw
mermaid things but I was like hey like
if you make a mermaid thing like you
have a way to show it in the UI now and
so it like had this anyways it's it's a
it's a programmable
coding agent and one of the things you
can do with it is just have it build
itself skills have it build itself
extensions and it's it's just fun it's
it's it's so much fun extending your own
thing. Basically,
>> I think I'm getting it now. This was the
thing I needed earlier. The harness or
whatever has access to modify itself.
Is that what you're saying?
>> It basically has access to itself. I
think with open code, you you have a
little bit of this because of this hook
system, but I think it's not on the same
level. I like at least when I was
I haven't used it like that much in in a
while, but like when I was origally
playing with it, it had a little bit of
it, but not to the same degree, I would
say.
>> All right. But let's say Claude code
which is closed source. I've not seen
Claude try to rewire itself live, you
know, right? But you're saying with with
Pi, you can have an experience where
you're in the middle of like using it to
write code for your software project. In
the middle of that, you could be like,
you know what, just go and alter
yourself this way because I think it
would be helpful for me right now.
>> Is that fair?
>> Yeah,
>> that's pretty cool.
>> And I mean like there's there's many
ways in which you could do this even
better. It's like over time like a
people that like this thing. sort of
started pushing a little bit in this
direction. We're kind of reaching this
point right now where like I feel like
my expectation to one of those tools is
that it writes itself a better solution
to this problem because it got so good.
And like this this example that um I I
did earlier today. A friend of mine was
um or like an acquaintance of mine was
sharing this thing that he pointed
Claude to an API of the Vienna public
transport service to tell him when like
reverse engineer how to get an answer
when the train leaves. I was like, "Oh,
this is really interesting. I wonder if
I can do this for all of Austria." So I
was pointing it to the website of the
trains the train service where you can
book the tickets which also has like the
the status update. And I just do like
Claude, here's the thing a friend of
mine built and here's the official API
just whatever build it. And it literally
took less than five minutes to do that.
And now I can talk to my Pi and it it it
routes me. And I I was asking it earlier
like can you give me a train from Vienna
to Gats that uses the check the check
train not the Austrian one which is
impossible to do in the UI and there's
actually utility to it and now it does
it and I think like if I were to have
paid for it in tokens it would be like
two and a half bucks.
>> Okay. So you're also giving an example
where almost like pi can become the
software that you are trying to build.
>> Is that fair?
>> Yeah. And and I think like that's not
necessarily PI specific, right? You can
have a lot of agents write skills for
itself. Like we have reached this point
where skills are really really really
useful. But the way I use pi and I think
the way a lot of people that are using
pies are pushing it towards makes that
just a little bit more like the kind of
thing that feels natural in that
environment because it is open because
it's very very like blank
>> canvas because you're saying it can
rewire its own UI, right?
>> Yeah.
>> That's pretty cool. Damn, you you sold
me really hard. I got to go um do you
have a video on this? I I'm actually
really curious.
>> I recorded a video I think with a where
I have like the question answer show up.
I mean, this is the other part. Like, my
Christmas project was a computer game,
and I don't think I've had so much fun
building something with an agent, and it
was only four and a half days that I
worked on it. I'm pretty sure I didn't
actually spend more than eight hours
actively on it. Like, most of it was
like me talking to the thing, making
humongous plans with with Opus, where
like back and forth like think for the
game design, think for the engine
design, all of this. And I was like now
now now let's make it 15phase plan step
by step. And then I was just like okay
phase one validate like I I let it build
its own debugging tools to to like
validate that this the screen shows up
correctly. And I just had like now do
this and I didn't look at the code
anything. I was just like does the game
work better now than before? And I just
kept prompting it. And it's like to me
that was that that's not responsible
programming in a way like that's I don't
do that at work but but it it feels like
this is real now. It it's it's getting
to the point where like I can I started
thinking of this more of like I
intentionally prompted it so it can
validate more or less the internal state
from the outside through different
observability. Like I didn't look what
the code is like. I was like does it
does it do the thing that I asked it to
like does it use the right algorithm?
does it like it asks you to visualize
the things so I can just look at it.
That to me was mind-bogging because I
haven't been doing this before and and I
really felt like that was a huge
difference that that like Opus and these
models now support that you can kind of
do it this way and yeah I don't know
>> you know just to help me understand so
it's it's like you're building the game
in such a way where you're feeding the
state or you're feeding parts of it back
to the agent to sort of like give it the
context to to build it better.
>> I basically ask the agent all the time
what it would need to make better
progress. So it's like how would you
debug this? And we did it like a back
and forth and like all the way at the
beginning I was like okay so we're going
to do this but let's start with the
debugging tools and and then every time
it failed to use its own debugging tools
I went like okay I I drop like I I
export the session from from Pi. So like
I to like I pointed to like give me the
URL where like the URL give me the file
path where your session is. I rewinded
back to earlier and then I said with
branch and I said like okay so we tried
to debug this now this completely failed
here's your session fix your debugging
tool I let it do this thing rewind again
and said like we improved the debugging
tool do it again until and I had like it
wrote its own debugging script system to
dump state from the engine and to
stepping and and everything and
screenshots and it is amazing
>> that's a very great and explicit use
case example of of the branching which
is you can
spend some time debugging with it,
right? And get some answers and then you
can use the branch to go back in time.
All of that gets tossed out of the
context, but you have it, you know, or
you've got uh like a minimal version of
that that you're going to copy paste or
now you know what you need to know and
you're going to type it out.
>> But it's also it's also specifically
like the the task of this was like
implement this feature by which it has
to use its own debugging tools in which
we learn the debugging tools are [__]
So side quest, let's fix the debugging
tools. Go all the way back up. Now we
have to fix debugging tools. Do we do
better job now, right? And and that kind
of like meta engineering like I didn't
do that much before.
>> This is a whole other topic. I am doing
a lot. I you know we don't talk about
our work that much on here, but this is
actually a lot of how I'm working on
modem these days because it is an agent
and there's a lot of hey you didn't
deliver a great answer. Can you why did
why why was that answer so horrible? Oh,
well, turns out I I can't actually see,
you know, this data. Gee, fant I I
didn't know. Thanks. I I think, you
know, and you can have that same
experience with with open code, cloud
code, cursor, etc. I think that's a a
pro tip, by the way, which is how could
I help you solve this problem, right? Or
what would you need to be more effective
in solving this problem? I think we
believe that the models and the, you
know, have gotten better to the degree
where like the answers are far more
meaningful, but often the answers are
like, oh [__] yeah, you know, like that
makes perfect sense. And I've had better
debugging sessions by by doing that as
well.
>> There's this thing like how these things
should work and there's the thing how
the things work at the moment. And and
it's like if I could wish for the system
to work in a certain way, I probably
wouldn't wish it to work like it does
today. But then I was like, okay, now I
need now I need to like I know if I want
to build my own agent, I need to live in
a world that is really really good at
what is it trained on source code. What
is source code really good on? [__]
file systems. And now like everything
that looks more like a file system, it's
just really good at is is the is the
file system the best possible way to
organize some stuff? Probably not.
There's a reason we use databases. But
right now if you can represent your
problem as something that looks similar
to file system all of the sudden it
works so much better. And so one of the
things that I did a bunch of times now
is like I said like hey I do this with
claude because pi doesn't have sub
agents but I was like hey claude spawn
15 sub aent let them all solve this
problem and then tell me afterwards how
to solve this problem. And the one that
like the when they did like and I was
like don't Google it. I was like the if
like 11 out of 15 sub agents decided to
solve it this way. I was like this is
now going to be my interface. I'm going
to build this thing
because the chances
>> this is like the uh if you have infinite
monkeys in a room one of them was going
to write Shakespeare but you've but
you're doing it with with sub agents.
And but it's it's such an interesting
pattern because like the I don't know
what the thing is like we don't know
what the RL is that's going in these
models the reinforcement learning right
we can only guess but we can kind of
like probe the models and say like okay
for like I have this little plugin for
pi that brings up I don't actually use
it but I was just curious that can
render like custom UI because David sele
this thing where he built this like
little thing I think which is like react
to show to components. So it's like hey
I want to book a calendar thing and then
it makes this this thing here. I was
like, "Okay, I want to have the same
thing." I was like, "Okay, how would you
do it?" I had this idea like, "I'm going
to do this and this." And like I was
like, "How would you do it?" I was like,
"Oh, yeah. This sounds like a real
problem. Let's can can you give me JSX?"
I was like, "Okay, then let's do JSX and
render that to the terminal." I wouldn't
have opted for that, but it's very good
at JSX. So,
like that's what we did. We ended up
doing JSX.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I think if I'm trying to
extract this out for people who might be
listening, it's like you may have a
strong notion of what the solution is
based on your experience, but the agent
is different and has its own experience
and if you can prompt it to help figure
out what it is good at, right? You don't
have to guess very much anymore. Is that
fair? Like you can have a conversation
about like, you know, what what do you
think you'd be the most successful at?
And it might actually be wrong and it
might hallucinate, but then you test it
and it's like, "Oh, you told me this is
like your optimal solution." But here
here I see you failing with your
proposed optimal solution. Let's let's
learn from this.
>> They do still lie. That's a whole other
topic. I think I almost feel like that
could be an entire uh follow-up episode.
When I look back at what we're talking
about today and what we were talking
about a month ago, it's incredible to me
that things are still changing. So what
what do you think this conversation is
going to look like in a month? I will no
longer give predictions. I think this is
sort of my main thing. I think that
okay, most podcasts and I've listened to
a few start of the year they're like h
what do you think is going to happen
this year? Okay, the timeline is a year
is too long now. So we are going to do
our January 2026 predictions. You see
what I'm saying? Like we're going to do
monthly predictions. What do you think?
>> Man, this is hard. I think that there
will be definitely more people using
skills. And I think maybe this is the
one prediction I actually feel somewhat
confident about is that what will make
MCP work a little bit better is deferred
tool loading with skills where you
basically you have your MCP server but
it's not there yet and then you load a
skill to figure out like what the MCP
server is actually capable of doing. I
feel like we will see a little bit of
this. That's going to be my my
prediction, I think. Yeah, these are
like there's predictions and there's
things that I want, right?
>> No, I think it's got to happen because
skills are taking off. Like skills are
like people are discovering skills,
right? And so like everybody who built
an MCP is like, "Okay, how am I getting
in on this?"
>> I mean, the point here is that we don't
know if we're right or wrong. We're just
you just get to say stuff and if you're
right, you can celebrate it. And if
you're wrong, no one's going to remember
and you can just move on with your life.
So that's the great thing about
predictions. All right, here's my
prediction. Okay, this is to bring it
full circle. Cursor is not laying down.
Cursor is going to show up with they're
going to they're going to show up with
something and they're going to fight
back and I don't know what it is. But I
think like the big theme of this is that
yeah, like Claude is good, but also the
harnesses are good. Or is it just
Claude? I don't know. I don't know.
>> Okay, I have a question. This is sort of
like maybe is like a meta. It's not a
prediction, but it's sort of like a
let's wager on it a little bit. Will
there be more or fewer coding harnesses
at the end of the quarter that people
actually use? And I was think just
thinking about this because like I was
pretty sure windsurf is going away and
people still use it, right? So like at
least I think so far none of these
things died out. So now I want like are
will there be more? Because so far it
feels like there still more or will
there be fewer? I don't think a quarter
is
uh long enough time for there to be
meaningful thrash. And that's mostly
just because the market is so big and
the opportunity is so big that I think
we're going to see people stick around.
I I guess I'd bet on there being more.
You know, I don't know that there's room
in anybody's brain for more, but I think
what you've taught me is that there is
still opportunity to innovate, right?
There are still innovation opportunities
in the harnesses. And so maybe maybe
someone will come up with like a really
totally different take on this which
would be exciting. I don't know.
>> So you think it will be more?
>> Yeah, I guess so.
>> It's it's probably a safe bet.
>> I would probably not bet against this.
>> All right. Well, let's um I guess we'll
come back one quarter. We'll come back
on this to see you know what the what
the next one is. Code Rabbit's going to
have one. I don't know. Okay.
>> There is actually one thing I will
predict and mostly just because of like
very very recent trends. I think
personal agents like Clawbot are going
to be a thing in a month. Remote
controls like text message to agent get
thermostat reading and turn on and off
lights and tell my wife that I'm going
shopping stuff like this.
>> Yeah, I'm not Yeah, I don't know. I
don't I've wanted to use this. Like I
tried Vibe Tunnel when you made when you
guys made that and I just found it hard.
I think I hit some port issue and I was
like I debugged it for like an hour with
Tail Scale and I'm like I don't know. I
think I'm done, you know, and I think
until we surpass that I I'm not sure,
but maybe I Cloudbot uses WhatsApp,
right? So that's like maybe a solution
where it just sort of like uses a very
like public interface. Is that part of
it?
>> Yeah. Uh I think it is it is it is it
the interface makes it more
approachable, but also like the the the
like the the agents are getting good
enough that people are like really
really crazy with them. Like oh it like
it spawns like [__] in my Docker
container. I don't care. like
>> we're going to have to come back to
this. There's no time for this. I think
you know what is Cloudbot?
>> I think we will we will revisit Cloudbot
in a month to see where it stands.
>> Okay, that's a good place to start. All
right, thanks everybody. Till next time.
Bye-bye.